Docs: AWS OIDC Integration set up guide (#41265)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/management/guides/awsoidc-integration.mdx

---
title: AWS OIDC Integration
description: How to connect your AWS account with Teleport and provide access to AWS resources.
---

> This guide explains how to set up the Teleport AWS OIDC Integration.

Reviewer: We should mention somewhere in the beginning that users can also configure the integration using Access Management UI and this guide is for users who want to do it manually or automate via terraform.

With an integration you will no longer need to deploy Teleport Agents in AWS manually for most use cases.
The following features use an Integration to interact with AWS:
- [External Audit Storage](../../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/external-audit-storage.mdx)
- RDS Auto Discovery
- EC2 Auto Discovery
- [Access Graph AWS Sync](../../access-controls/access-graph/aws-sync.mdx)

## How it works
Teleport is added as an Identity Provider in AWS by exposing the `openid-configuration` and public keys in a public S3 bucket.

This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

> Initially, no policy is added to the IAM Role, but users are asked to add them the first time they are trying to use a given feature.

Reviewer: It is not clear how they will be asked to add them.

```json
{
  "issuer": "<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>",
  "jwks_uri": "https://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>/.well-known/jwks",
  // other fields
}
```

Upload those files to `<Var name="s3-bucket"/>` bucket:
```code
<Var name="s3-bucket"/>
└── <Var name="s3-prefix"/>
    └── .well-known
        ├── openid-configuration
        └── jwks
```

Make those objects public (either using Bucket Policies or ACLs):
```bash
$ curl https://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>/.well-known/openid-configuration
$ curl https://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>/.well-known/jwks
```

## Step 3/5. Configure the Identity Provider in AWS
Navigate to [AWS IAM Identity Provider](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/identity_providers/create) and configure the Identity Provider:
- Provider type: OpenID Connect
- Provider URL:
```code
https://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>
```
- Audience: `discover.teleport`

## Step 4/5. Create IAM Role
An IAM Role must be created to assign the required policies to the Integration <Var name="iam-role"/>.

> This IAM Role is created without any policy, as those are added depending on the feature you would like to use.

Reviewer: If we're saying this, there should be a reference somewhere for what policies are needed for which features.

However, it must be configured to allow the Identity Provider to assume it.
To achieve this, add the following Trust Relationship:
```json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": {
				"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<Var name="aws-account-id" description="AWS Account ID"/>:oidc-provider/<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>"
			},
			"Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
			"Condition": {
				"StringEquals": {
					"<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>:aud": "discover.teleport"
				}
			}
		}
	]
}
```

It is also required to add the following tags, which are used by Teleport to ensure it can change the IAM Role when onboarding new features:
```code
teleport.dev/cluster      <Var name="cluster-name"/>
teleport.dev/origin       integration_awsoidc
teleport.dev/integration  <Var name="my-integration"/>
```

## Step 5/5. Create Integration resource

> ```yaml

Reviewer: "Create integration resource" and just giving them yaml will confuse users. We should show them how to create it with tctl.

kind: integration
sub_kind: aws-oidc
version: v1
metadata:
  name: <Var name="my-integration"/>
spec:
  aws_oidc:
    role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<Var name="aws-account-id"/>:role/<Var name="iam-role"/>"
    issuer_s3_uri: s3://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>
```

> After the set up is complete, you can now use the "Enroll New Resource" flow in WebUI, or other integration dependent features.

Reviewer: Reading "other integration dependent features" just begs a question "how do I know which ones and where to find them". As "next steps" we should include links to external audit storage setup and so on cause if you setup the integration manually/IaC you'd probably want to do the same for the features too.

---
title: AWS OIDC Integration

> description: How to connect your AWS account with Teleport and provide access to AWS resources.

Author: I'm not sure about adding this to the "Run Teleport Agents" section, because we are not running a Teleport Agent.
We could also create a new section called "Cloud Access/AWS", but it would only have this integration for now.

> If this ends up being the preferred workflow to enroll Teleport resources in AWS

We don't support some of the most used (?) features, although that's currently being worked on.
I'm talking about
[EC2 Auto Discover using SSM](https://goteleport.com/docs/auto-discovery/servers/ec2-discovery/) https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/41002
[AWS App Access](https://goteleport.com/docs/application-access/cloud-apis/aws-console/) https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/30150
When we do, we might discuss if this should be the prefered way of enrolling aws resources

> description: How to connect your AWS account with Teleport and provide access to AWS resources.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, thanks!

---

> This guide explains how to set up the Teleport AWS OIDC Integration.

Author: What about the page's title? Should we keep it capitalized?

> This guide explains how to set up the Teleport AWS OIDC Integration.

Reviewer 2: Yes—we capitalize major terms in titles (i.e., words except for "an", "as", etc.)

It targets users who would prefer a more manual approach or which to use a more Infrastrcutre as Code oriented flow.

As an alternative to this guide, you can use the Teleport Web UI (Access Management / Enroll New Integration).

With an integration you will no longer need to deploy Teleport Agents in AWS manually for most use cases.
The following features use an Integration to interact with AWS:
- [External Audit Storage](../../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/external-audit-storage.mdx)
- RDS Auto Discovery
- EC2 Auto Discovery
- [Access Graph AWS Sync](../../access-controls/access-graph/aws-sync.mdx)

## How it works
Teleport is added as an Identity Provider in AWS by exposing the `openid-configuration` and public keys in a public S3 bucket.

> This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

Author: Any service or even agent can access the AWS resources.

Auth, Proxy and Discovery service can access any service.

While other agents/clients can only call our own APIs (which end up calling the AWS APIs), as long as they have the `integration.use` allow rule
https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/0a26cdc5ef528244b2369cf6fc9a98bbf97dff6b/api/proto/teleport/integration/v1/awsoidc_service.proto#L24

Do you think it's worth adding this explanation?
IMO, it's implementation details and makes this guide a bit complex without providing any actual product/feature value, so I don't think we should add it

> This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

Reviewer 2: As an operator, I'm not sure the "How it works" section would help me understand the workloads that this feature adds to a Teleport cluster: how do different Teleport components communicate in order to make this work? Does the OIDC authorization server run as part of the Teleport Auth Service, for example, or is there a separate Teleport service you need to deploy?

> This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

Author: Communication is over gRPC as usual and there's no extra Teleport Service that you need to deploy/configure/maintain.

I can be explicit about this feature not requiring a specific service.
IMO, for simplicity purposes I don't think we should add that, given that it is not a requirement.
Let me know what you think.

> This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I would make it explicit that the Teleport Auth Service runs the OIDC authorization server (assuming that's true—I'm guessing from the source). Otherwise, for a cluster with thousands of `teleport` processes running as agents, Auth Service replicas or Proxy Service replicas, "Teleport" obscures what's going on in an actual deployment.

> This allows Teleport to assume a configured Role and access AWS resources.

Author: There's no operational overhead, this service works just like the Roles or Users Service, and is irrelevant from the operator standpoint.

The token generation happens in Auth Service, but I don't think it's worth adding that here.

Having said that, what do you think about:
> This runs alongside your existing cluster and no extra configuration or services are required.

```json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": {
				"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::<Var name="aws-account-id" description="AWS Account ID"/>:oidc-provider/<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>"
			},
			"Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
			"Condition": {
				"StringEquals": {
					"<Var name="s3-bucket"/>.s3.amazonaws.com/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>:aud": "discover.teleport"
				}
			}
		}
	]
}
```

It is also required to add the following tags, which are used by Teleport to ensure it can change the IAM Role when onboarding new features:
```code
teleport.dev/cluster      <Var name="cluster-name"/>
teleport.dev/origin       integration_awsoidc
teleport.dev/integration  <Var name="my-integration"/>
```

## Step 5/5. Create Integration resource
Create a file called `awsoidc-integration.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
kind: integration
sub_kind: aws-oidc
version: v1
metadata:
  name: <Var name="my-integration"/>
spec:
  aws_oidc:
    role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<Var name="aws-account-id"/>:role/<Var name="iam-role"/>"
    issuer_s3_uri: s3://<Var name="s3-bucket"/>/<Var name="s3-prefix"/>
```

> We specify the IAM Role and the S3 URI which has the openid-configuration and public keys.

Reviewer 2: We don't need to capitalize "Role" on this page.

---
title: AWS OIDC Integration
description: How to connect your AWS account with Teleport and provide access to AWS resources.
---

This guide explains how to set up the Teleport AWS OIDC integration.

With the AWS OIDC integration you will no longer need to deploy Teleport agents in AWS manually for most use cases.
The following features use an AWS OIDC integration to interact with AWS:
- [External Audit Storage](../../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/external-audit-storage.mdx)
- RDS Auto Discovery
- EC2 Auto Discovery
- [Access Graph AWS Sync](../../access-controls/access-graph/aws-sync.mdx)

> It targets users who would prefer a more manual approach or which to use a more Infrastrcutre as Code oriented flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It targets users who would prefer a more manual approach or to manage the integration with Infrastructure as Code tools.
```
Spelling and grammar

As an alternative to this guide, you can use the Teleport Web UI (Access Management / Enroll New Integration).

## How it works

> Teleport is added as an Identity Provider in AWS by exposing the `openid-configuration` and public keys in a public S3 bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport is added as an [OpenID Connect identity provider](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create_oidc.html) to establish trust with your AWS account and assume a configured IAM role in order to access AWS resources. 

For this to work, the `openid-configuration` and public keys are exposed in a public S3 bucket. The integration requires no extra configuration or services to run.
```

Added a link, fixed capitalization, and indicated at a high level what an AWS OIDC integration does. Otherwise, this seems to launch into specifics too early.

> This runs alongside your existing cluster and no extra configuration or services are required.
> 
> This allows Teleport to assume a configured IAM role and access AWS resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This runs alongside your existing cluster and no extra configuration or services are required.

This allows Teleport to assume a configured IAM role and access AWS resources.
```
Removing these paragraphs to incorporate them into the previous suggestion.

Initially, no policy is added to the IAM role, but users are asked to add them the first time they are trying to use a given feature.
For example, when setting up [External Audit Storage](../../choose-an-edition/teleport-cloud/external-audit-storage.mdx), you will be asked to add the required policies to this IAM role.

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport cluster.
- AWS Account with permissions to create public S3 buckets, IAM Identity Providers and roles

## Step 1/5. Configure RBAC

To configure the integration you will need the following allow rules in one of your Teleport roles.
These are available by default in the preset `editor` role:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - integration
      verbs:
      - create
      - update
      - list
      - read
      - delete
      - use
```

## Step 2/5. Upload public keys to S3

> AWS OIDC integration uses OpenID Connect to grant access to AWS APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AWS OIDC integration uses OpenID Connect to grant access to AWS APIs.
```
